## Speaker bios

- **Albert Y. Kim** is an Assistant Professor of Statistical and Data Sciences at Smith College in Northampton, MA. Albert completed his Ph.D. in Statistics at the University of Washington. He is a co-author of the `fivethirtyeight` R package, (ModernDive.com), an online textbook for introductory statistics and data science using R, and the instructor for DataCamp's new *Modeling with Data in the Tidyverse* course. Previously he worked in the Search Ads Metrics Team at Google Inc. as well as at Reed, Middlebury, and Amherst Colleges.

- **Randi Garcia** is an Assistant Professor of Psychology and Statistical and Data Science at Smith College. She is interested in how status and power within people’s daily interactions work to reproduce larger social inequalities. Using quantitative methods, her research explores interpersonal interactions and relationships among people with different social group identities in various contexts. Garcia’s undergraduate education at UCLA was in psychology and women’s studies, with a specialization in computing. While earning her doctorate in social psychology at the University of Connecticut, she completed a master’s degree in statistics, and is an Accredited Professional Statistician.

- **David R. Hunter** is a professor of statistics and head of the Department of Statistics at Penn State University, where he has been a member of the faculty since 1999.  He earned his Ph.D. in statistics from the University of Michigan in 1999, following a math degree from Princeton University in 1992 and two years teaching mathematics at a public high school in New Hampshire. He has published widely on statistical models for networks and is a co-creator of the `statnet` suite of packages for network analysis in R. He is a fellow of the American Statistical Association.

- **Deborah Nolan** is professor and department chair of statistics at the University of California Berkeley where she also holds the Zaffaroni Family Chair in Undergraduate Education.  Deb has been recognized for excellence in teaching, including being selected this year for ASA's Waller Distinguished Teaching Career Award.  She is co-author of several books, including *Stat Labs: Mathematical Statistics  through Applications*, with Terry Speed; *Teaching Statistics: A Bag of Tricks*, with Andrew Gelman, and *Data science in R: A Case Studies Approach to Computational Reasoning and Problem Solving*, with Duncan Temple Lang. 

- **Joe Blitzstein** is an Assistant Professor of Statistics at Harvard University. He finished his Ph.D. work at Stanford University in 2006, advised by Persi Diaconis. Joe's research is a mixture of statistics, probability, and combinatorics. He's especially interested in graphical models, complex networks, and Monte Carlo algorithms (including both sequential importance sampling and Markov chains).

- [**Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mine_%C3%87etinkaya-Rundel) is a statistician from Turkey. She is an associate professor of the practice at Duke University and a professional educator at RStudio. She is best known for her work on the *OpenIntro Statistics* open source textbooks, which are used by universities across the globe, including Harvard and Princeton. She is also the instructor for several popular Coursera courses. She is the chair-elect of the Statistical Education Section of the American Statistical Association.
